{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 There are seventy six epistases with unique phenotypic expression.  Each one can be seen in a large number of individuals spanning the entire globe.  This gives them statistical (genome-wide) significance.  Due to the large number of samples, the present study has high statistical power.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 A Genome-Wide Association Study Identifies Five Loci Influencing Facial Morphology in Europeans 
\i0 states, \'93Inter-individual variation in facial shape is one of the most noticeable phenotypes in humans, and it is clearly under genetic regulation; however, almost nothing is known about the genetic basis of normal human facial morphology.\'94  This is going to change once the discoveries presented in this book are verified and further investigation occurs.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720
\cf0 It goes on to say, \'93The complexity of human facial development\'85 almost certainly underlies the vast spectrum of subtle variation that characterizes facial appearance in the human population.\'94  Epistasis is what underlies the spectrum of facial variation.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 It also states, \'93Although genes have been mapped for various rare craniofacial syndromes largely inherited in Mendelian form, the genetic basis of normal variation in human facial shape is still poorly understood.\'94  Further investigation of what has been presented in this book will help us to finally understand the genetic basis of facial variation.\
Our knowledge of DNA is extensive, but it is not complete.  Part of the reason our knowledge of DNA is incomplete is that we are under the impression that all the major discoveries about life have already been made.  We have been focusing our energies on finding everything we can that verifies those discoveries because we believe no new major discoveries are possible.  Everything we can't explain, we put in a context (existing knowledge) in which it doesn't belong.\
One example is the \'93missing heritability\'94 problem.\
In the article \'93A Genome Wide Association Study of Cloninger\'92s Temperament Scales:  Implications for the Evolutionary Genetics of Personality\'94 there is a sentence that says, \'93Missing heritability has been observed to a large extent in almost all complex traits.\'94  The reason is that many things that seem to be hereditary are actually just coincidental.  Family members tend to have the same epistases, but the fact that they have them is a coincidence.  It has nothing to do with heredity.\
In the next paragraph, it says, \'93a robust theoretical framework could also help to gain a fuller understanding of the genetic basis of complex traits.\'94  The theory that there are seventy six epistases that are not inherited is going to help us to gain a fuller understanding of the genetic basis of complex traits.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 In the article \'93Editorial Policy on Candidate Gene Association and Candidate Gene-by-Environment Interaction Studies of Complex Traits\'94 it states, \cf3 "the literature on candidate gene associations is full of reports that have not stood up to rigorous replication.\'94  It goes on to say, \'93It now seems likely that many of the published findings of the last decade are wrong or misleading and have not contributed to real advances in knowledge".  In \'93Candidate gene association studies in psychiatry:  time to move forward\'94 it states that candidate-gene publications have "yielded an infinitude of publications with very few consistent replications".  The reason they failed to replicate is because the studies didn't factor in the seventy six epistases.  Without the seventy six epistases included in a study, the study is incomplete.  In other words, all of our studies have been incomplete.\cf0 \
The last sentence of the article entitled \'93Joint Influence of Small-Effect Genetic Variants on Human Longevity\'94 is \'93Identification of genetic variants \'91sensitive\'92 to specific external signals will open new opportunities for studying the role of genetic and non-genetic factors in complex traits.\'94\
This sums up what I\'92ve been working on.  I\'92ve discovered evidence that there are external signals that affect genes.  There\'92s so much evidence that it warrants further investigation.\
In \'93Establishing a Multidisciplinary Context for Modeling 3D Facial Shape from DNA,\'94 it mentions \'93the largely unknown mechanisms by which genetic variation affects facial features.\'94  Perhaps these epistases are those very mechanisms, and perhaps their study will help us to unravel \'93the genetic architecture of facial morphology.\'94\
An observation found in both (2005) International Anthropometric Study of Facial Morphology in Various Ethnic Groups/Races and (2014) Face Shape Differs in Phylogenetically Related Populations is that human population groups show observable differences.\
An observation found in (2013) Heritabilities of Facial Measurements and Their Latent Factors in Korean Families is \'93genetic relatives often show particular distinctive features.\'94  This is due to 
\i epistatic distance
\i0 .  They have dissimilar epistases.\
}