{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Most of us agree that there is a large-scale genetic mechanism called evolution, and we agree that it is made up of the two mechanisms known as inheritance and mutation.  We assume that this large-scale genetic mechanism is the main, the 
\i only
\i0 , large-scale genetic mechanism.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720
\cf0 Doing scientific research based on the assumption that this is the one and only large-scale genetic mechanism has led us to discoveries and has done us a lot of good, however we also encounter a lot of walls and questions that we can\'92t answer.  It doesn\'92t really cross anyone\'92s mind, for some reason, that perhaps there is another large-scale genetic mechanism.  Just the fact that we can\'92t explain several genetic events should bring up the question of whether there might be another large-scale mechanism.\
In 2002, I discovered another large-scale genetic mechanism.\
The new genetic mechanism I discovered in 2002 provides answers to all the questions we have not been able to find answers for - at least, all of the 
\i main 
\i0 questions.  For example, what was discovered in 2002 explains why there are many genetic disorders that are not hereditary.  The fact that there are genetic disorders that are not hereditary baffles us because we believe there is one main large-scale genetic mechanism, and according to the workings of this mechanism every genetic disorder is either hereditary or the result of a mutation.\
Another thing this newly discovered genetic mechanism explains is the phenomenon of people who are not related looking almost exactly alike, or looking extremely similar (as if they were related).  According to our belief right now in this one world-wide genetic mechanism, if two people look alike it\'92s because they are related.  Phrases like \'93brother from another mother\'94 and \'93sister from another mister\'94 imply that similarity between two organisms can only be the result of heredity.\
There are famous people who look alike who aren\'92t related.  There are articles about celebrity lookalikes all over the internet.  They\'92re even finding people from the past that look like famous people who are alive now.  According to our conception of genetics, they must be related.  They must be siblings, or even cousins, but they\'92re not.  This newly discovered genetic mechanism explains why these unrelated people look alike.\
What it all comes down to is something called epistasis.  Our one large-scale genetic mechanism model doesn\'92t explain epistasis.  Epistasis is the 
\i way
\i0  genes interact with each other.  Genes are inherited, but epistasis is not.\
The genetic mechanism discovered in 2002 explains epistasis.\
It also raises the question of the heritability of many genetic disorders that we assume are hereditary.  Just because more than one person in a family have a genetic disorder does not necessarily mean that it\'92s inherited.  It could be coincidence.  Genetic disorders are partly due to heredity, partly due to environment, and partly due to epistasis.\
These discoveries need to be verified.  Once they are verified, then we can branch out and study other species.  For the past 15 years, the focus has been on human beings.  Once we understand this other large-scale genetic mechanism, our understanding will lead to practical applications which cannot be found with the one large-scale genetic mechanism model.  Because we only understand and study one large-scale genetic mechanism, we don\'92t fully understand anything.  We have a half-understanding.  There is no way you can cure cancer if you only half-understand it.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 This newly discovered genetic mechanism needs to be verified because it will give us a complete understanding of genetic disorders.  Cancer, schizophrenia, and obesity, just to name a few of these disorders, are only half-understood right now.  We\'92ve done everything we can with our partial understanding.  We need to complete our understanding.  This newly discovered genetic mechanism will do that, or, at least, it will get us much closer to a a complete understanding than where we\'92re currently at.\
There are individuals who, despite having different parents share identical, or nearly identical, phenotypes.  There is currently no explanation for this.  It appears to be random.  On further investigation, however, we find there are phenotypes which can be found in individuals of every origin.  We also find each individual has between 4 and 9 of these phenotypes.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720
\cf0 These phenotypes are not the result of inherited genes, environment, or random developmental events.  These phenotypes are the result of epistasis.\
Just as epistasis can be responsible for phenotypes like hair color and eye color, it is also responsible for phenotypes that determine 
\i relationships
\i0  between features.  Normally, features are categorized by their color or size (magnitude), but the 
\i way
\i0  all of them are arranged (their relationship to each other) is also a feature.  These relationships are traits that we have overlooked.  People who share these traits look alike despite the fact that they aren\'92t related.\
One way to look at it is as follows:  your overall phenotype is a song.  Your inherited traits are the individual notes of the song.  The haplogroup which your genes come from would be the key the song is in.  A musical note has a duration and a volume, but it is the relationship (arrangement) of the notes that make music.  Without an arrangement there is no song.  The relationship between the inherited traits would be the 
\i genre
\i0  of the song.\
We have been studying the notes (inherited traits and traits that result from mutation), and all the different keys, but we haven\'92t been paying attention to genres.  Songs (overall phenotypes) in different keys (haplogroups) with different notes (inherited traits) can still be extremely similar when they are in the same genre, in other words when they are 
\i arranged in the same way
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 The main genres (arrangement) are in the process of being studied and documented, as well as several sub-genres (of which over four thousand have been presented in this book).\
}