{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When you study genetics, you run into the phrase \'93genetic architecture\'94 often.  It\'92s used in the majority of papers.  What\'92s never mentioned is \'93genetic architects\'94 because it\'92s assumed that there\'92s only one genetic architect, written about a hundred and fifty years ago, which is called natural selection.  We assume this to be the 
\i only
\i0  genetic architect, but in 2002 I discovered another genetic architect.\
This other architect influences gene expression and thus phenotype.\
There are two genetic architects.  One of them gives you your genes.  The other one is responsible for the epistasis of your genes.\
An understanding of the other architect will help scientists to do genome sequencing.  What\'92s missing from current genome sequencing is an understanding of epistasis.  Further investigation of the other architect will lead to an understanding of epistasis.\
The other architect could also be the genetic architect responsible for pleiotropy.  The epistases presented in this book may determine which effects of pleiotropic genes are expressed (and may even explain their existence).\
The fact that these epistatic patterns exist shows that we are connected to something on this planet, or, to be more exact, a manifold of different things on this planet, that affects us genetically.  This is extremely important because for us to understand genetic disorders, we have to find out what this thing is (what this manifold of things is).  There\'92s a great chance that the cures for the genetic disorders that we\'92ve been seeking cures for will be found there.\
According to what is known as survival of the fittest, these genetic disorders would not be as pervasive in society as they are because the people who succumb to these disorders would not be able to pass on their genes, but since it\'92s epistasis, and not heredity, that is the main factor in the existence of these disorders, they exist outside of the realm of survival of the fittest.  They exist outside of natural selection.  They exist outside of evolution.  Where they exist is in the large-scale genetic mechanism which I discovered in 2002.\
The reason that we can\'92t find cures for, or can\'92t prevent, many genetic disorders is because we don\'92t know where they\'92re coming from.  We attribute something as the source that isn\'92t the source.  Imagine a country where something in the water is making everyone sick, but everyone in the country believes that the sickness is hereditary and that there\'92s nothing that can be done about it.  All they can do is make pills to alleviate the symptoms or pills that make it more bearable, but they never cure it or stop it because, instead of finding the source, they believe they 
\i know 
\i0 the source (and they\'92re wrong).\
What I found are some real sources and the reason we haven\'92t been able to prevent or cure many of the genetic disorders that exist is because we want to believe that heredity is the source of everything (even though it\'92s not).\
\
Reduced or incomplete penetrance means carriers of a harmful gene variant or SNP, even one that is considered a dominant mutation, may not develop the associated disease, the genetic architecture - in other words, you can inherit genes from your parents that should lead you to have the same problems that they have, but what determines whether or not an organism develops the associated disease, the genetic architecture, is the epistasis.  If you don\'92t have the epistasis associated with that disorder, you\'92re not going to get it.\
Gene editing is not the solution.  Even if you edit genes, you\'92re not editing the epistasis of those genes.\
The other architect is the one in control of epistasis.  It could also be the one in control of gene deletion.\
Our genes are obviously connected to something other than evolution and the heredity that it is comprised of.  The fact that there are people that look alike that aren\'92t related and the fact that there are genetic disorders are not hereditary (there are some that we 
\i know
\i0  are not hereditary, and there are some we 
\i think
\i0  are hereditary but which may not be) are evidence.  The reason these disorders don\'92t fit into the one large-scale genetic mechanism model (evolution) is because they don\'92t fit in with natural selection and survival of the fittest.  These disorders disable people and obviously don\'92t confer any advantage, they just repeat through time in regular patterns, and these patterns have little to do with heredity (at least, much less than we would like to believe they do).\
I\'92m not denying that heredity exists and I\'92m not denying that evolution by natural selection exists.  I\'92m saying that there\'92s another genetic mechanism.  This mechanism and the other mechanism (evolution) are complementary.  They both explain aspects of life and neither one explains everything on its own.\
Evolution is a 
\i part
\i0  of life, not the 
\i whole 
\i0 of life.\
Discoveries like these unfold in four main stages.  The first stage is the initial discovery.  The second stage is verification.  The third stage is further investigation.  Further investigation leads to practical application.  These discoveries must be verified.  The process of verification begins with this book.\
Everyone in the world can make their own investigation.  These findings can be validated in independent populations.  You can validate these finding in the people you know (your friends and family).  Precision will come as this science matures and more people participate.\
Once the study of these epistases in other species happens, we are more than likely going to find out that these exact same epistases exist in other species.\
\
If ten people in every country replicated my study, we would have all the subgenres documented in just a few years.\
After we document all the subgenres, we will be able to find out 
\i why
\i0  they exist.  That why 
\i is 
\i0 the other architect.\
This book provides something that can be verified by anyone, but to completely verify these findings, many more populations need to be studied.  This book is just the beginning.  It illustrates the existence of something which merits further investigation and provides the stimulus and methodological framework for the first stage of that investigation.  All that is needed is to isolate the seventy six epistases in a way that will facilitate further discoveries.\
Some of the main concerns at the moment that I am writing this are traveling through space and colonizing other parts of the solar system, curing cancer and other diseases, and prolonging the life span of human beings.  In order to do these things that we are concerned with, it is necessary that we have a complete understanding of life.  Without a complete understanding, we haven\'92t been able to do these things and we\'92re not going to be able to do these things.  The findings presented in this book may not give us a complete understanding, but they 
\i will
\i0  help our understanding become much more complete than it is now.\
If you know anyone working in any of these areas, I suggest you tell them about this research.  They may want to get in contact with me.\
}