{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 There are physical phenotypes and disease phenotypes which have nothing to do with heredity.  These phenotypes explain why people who aren\'92t related look alike (look like they are related).  They also explain genetic disorders which aren\'92t hereditary.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720
\cf0 These phenotypes, which have nothing to do with heredity, are the result of epistasis.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Natural selection does not explain the existence of these phenotypes, survival of the fittest does not explain the existence of these phenotypes, evolution does not explain the existence of these phenotypes, because these phenotypes do not change, they do not evolve.  They repeat in regular patterns.\
The phenotypes of the epistases are also 
\i intertranspicuous
\i0 .  Intertranspicuous means \'93that can be seen through or between each other\'94.  Once you get an idea of what the phenotype of an epistasis looks like, you will be able to see it despite the presence of other phenotypes.  You'l  be able to see all the phenotypes of the epistases in a person's face and be able to differentiate between them.\
No one has just one epistasis, so you have to look at several people with an epistasis to see what they have in common.  You also have to go through other epistases and see what they have in common.  Once you go through the epistases and you start seeing them, then you start seeing 
\i how
\i0  they blend in one face (you see the phenotypic impacts of epistasis).\
The phenotype of each epistasis has characteristic landmarks.  Some are more noticeable than others.  Large upper teeth is a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 11, 12, 22, 23, 24, and 34.  Large jaws is a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 12, 13, 14, 24, 25, 26, 72, 73, and 74.  Large breasts and/or obesity is a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 16, 17, 18, 40, 41, 42, 64, 65, and 66.  Really noticeable eyes (irises) are a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 18, 19, 20, 38, 39, 40, 70, 71, and 72.  Really noticeable eyebrows are a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 6, 7, 8, 20, 21, 22, 32, 33, 34, 68, 69, 70, 74, 75, 76.  Eyes that bulge are a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 22, 23, and 24.  A thin body is one of the characteristic landmarks of Epistasis 28, 29, 30, 52, 53, and 54.  Large foreheads and oblong faces are characteristic landmarks of Epistasis 36, 37, 38, 59, 60, and 76.  Baldness is a characteristic landmark of Epistasis 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50, 52, 53, and 54.  A bulbous nose is one of the characteristic landmarks of Epistasis 26, 27, 28, 44, 45, 46, 56, 57, and 58.  Widow's peaks, grey eyes, and bags under the eyes are all characteristic landmarks of Epistasis 48, 49, and 50.  Skin undertones and hair undertones are some of the characteristic landmarks of Epistases 1 through 10.\
The features of each epistasis are also relative.  They\'92re not absolute.  For example, Epistasis 7 gives people\'92s skin a pink undertone.  There are some haplogroups in which the majority of people have a pink undertone.  In their case, Epistasis 7 wouldn\'92t give them a pink undertone.  It would give them a 
\i stronger
\i0  pink undertone than the other members of their family or the other people that are part of their haplogroup who don\'92t have Epistasis 7.  It would be more red than pink.  People with really dark skin would have a pinkish brown undertone.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720
\cf0 Another example is Epistasis 65, which tends to give women larger breasts.  This is also 
\i relative
\i0 .  If every woman in a family has large breasts, the woman with Epistasis 65 would have slightly larger breasts than the rest of them.  If no women in a family has large breasts, having Epistasis 65 would give a woman larger breasts than the other women in her family, but her breasts might still not be large 
\i compared
\i0  to women who come from families of large-breasted women.\
The phenotypes of each epistasis are most visible in the 
\i relationship
\i0  of the features (sometimes it is most visible in the features themselves).  For example, epistasis 61 gives you a strong chin and when you look at the phenotype, you\'92ll see a 
\i relationship
\i0  between the chin, the nose, the eyes, and the forehead.  Part of the reason why there are so many examples on each epistasis page is so that you can 
\i see
\i0  the relationship for yourself.\
These phenotypes are 
\i isomorphic
\i0 , which means although the ancestry of the individuals of these individuals is different, the phenotypes themselves have the same form and appearance.  These epistases have no ethnicity.\
These epistases are present in every human population, regardless of the continent.  Further study of these epistases will help the scientific community, as well as society at large, to realize there is not as much genetic distance between individuals of different ethnic backgrounds as we have believed (and have propagated the belief in).  It will also lead to the use of the term 
\i epistatic distance
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Epistatic distance explains why sometimes a member of a family will be noticeably different from the other members of the family.\
Some individuals have high genetic distance, but low epistatic distance; some individuals have low genetic distance, but high epistatic distance; some individuals have high genetic distance and high epistatic distance; and some people, usually people who are related to each other, have low genetic distance and low epistatic difference.  People with low epistatic distance, regardless of whether they're related to each other or not, look similar to each other.\
Each epistasis has its own spectrum, and your own particular epistasis is somewhere on that spectrum.  Each part of the spectrum is different from the other parts in the spectrum.  This is why there are variations of each epistasis.  When two people share the same variation of an epistasis (when their epistasis is on the same part of the spectrum of that epistasis), they have similar phenotypes.\
We've been taking pictures of people for almost two hundred years and during that time the seventy six epistases and their variations haven't changed.  Somewhere there are pictures of people who lived in the past (who aren't related to you) that look like you (who share an epistasis or two).  Some of them are famous.  Some of them are not.  There are also people (who are not related to you) who were just born, or who will be born in the future, that will also share some of these epistases with you and who may run into a picture of you somewhere and see the resemblance between the two of you.\
At the moment it is not possible to make lists of all the genes or SNPs related to the physical phenotypes that are illustrated by the examples of people with the phenotypes because the information is not available.  Our understanding of genes and SNPs that are related to all the different physical features is not advanced enough at this point.  Perhaps this book will facilitate the process of discovering them.\
}